# Redux CLI

[redux-cli](https://github.com/blackpixel/redux-cli/) is a tool that was created to follow all of the best practices mentioned in this handbook. It has built in commands for creating entire state folders, individual state folder items, and smart container components that use selectors. Refer to the documentation for a more detailed look at what's possible.

## Creating State Folders

Using the `redux-cli make <name>` command you can create entire state tree folders in no time at all. For example, assume our state tree is as follows:

```javascript
{
  todos: {
    active: [],
    complete: [],
    archived: [],
  }
}
```

To create this state tree you would simply run the following command:

```
redux-cli make todos --reducers=active,complete,archived
```

This will create a folder named `todos` with the following files inside of it:

- `reducer.js`
- `actions.js`
- `selectors.js`

If you notice we passed an additional `--reducers` flag, this populates our `reducer.js` with the comma separated list of reducer items to be combined via `combineReducers`. In the example command above our `reducer.js` file would look like the following:

```javascript
import { combineReducers } from 'redux';
import { handleActions } from 'redux-actions';

import {
  TODO_TEST_ACTION,
} from 'path/to/action-types';

const active = handleActions({
  [TODO_TEST_ACTION]: (state, { payload }) => payload,
});

const completed = handleActions({
  [TODO_TEST_ACTION]: (state, { payload }) => payload,
});

const archived = handleActions({
  [TODO_TEST_ACTION]: (state, { payload }) => payload,
});

export default combineReducers({
  active,
  completed,
  archived,
});
```

Notice that action types are automatically added with a namespace via the `<name>` value (in this case "TODO"). Alternatively, if you would prefer to break up your child reducers even further you could run the following commands:

```
redux-cli make todos
redux-cli make active --path=todos
redux-cli make completed --path=todos
redux-cli make archived --path=todos
```

In the example above we can pass in a `--path` flag to denote that we want to create that state tree folder inside of the todos folder.

This tool is absolutely invaluable for saving time when developing an application with `redux`. It also makes it incredibly easy to follow all of the rules outlined in this handbook. If you have recommendations or ideas please feel free to [contribute](https://github.com/blackpixel/redux-cli/blob/master/contributing.md) to the project!

## Creating Individual State Files

`redux-cli` also gives you the ability to create individual state files:

- `redux-cli make:reducer`
- `redux-cli make:action`
- `redux-cli make:selector`
- `redux-cli make:container <name>`

If you need to set custom names for the reducer, action, or selector file you can pass an optional `--name` flag like so:

```
redux-cli make:reducer --name=foo-reducer
// a file named foo-reducer.js will be created
```

Creating individual files is useful if you already have an existing state structure in place and want to slowly implement a new one. Please refer to the readme of [redux-cli](https://github.com/blackpixel/redux-cli/) for more usage examples.

## Custom File Templates

If your team has a different way to structure the generated files, `redux-cli` also gives you the ability to create your own. [Refer to the documentation](https://github.com/blackpixel/redux-cli/) for more information on how to set this up. We recommend only adding in custom templates if they are absolutely needed as the ones that are generated by default follow all of the best practices outlined in this handbook.
